# Review 1

The compiler is frighteningly usable. The language must be surveyed and issues fixed.

-   DONE: introduce an 'assign'/'update' operator: thinking `:=`
    -   carefully consider how mutation works: either ML model with mutation only via references, or introduce 'var's
    -   if mutation only via reference, then implicit lambda copy closures are accurate!
    -   'var' can be useful if we decide to introduce side-effects-specifiers, and want a way to check that mutation is local.
    -   simplest solution: expose `alloca` and `malloc` from C
        -   an inline C wrapper may be easier than a compiler feature
-   DONE: regularize type names such that they are always uppercase, no exceptions.
    -   may have missed some uses
-   DONE: distinguish between '=>' and '->' procedure types to support closure slot and no closure slot resp.
-   DONE: introduce a `discard` statement
    -   `let _ = <exp>` is a more cumbersome version of this.
-   DONE: implement 'ite' or 'mux' expressions
    -   this compiles to the `?` expression in C++
-   DONE: implement loops
    -   can revisit this and add full-fledged `for` loops once we have methods:
        -   like Scala, can use the `for (ID <- expression)` syntax to iterate over iterators.
        -   need methods for `begin`, `end`, etc
    -   until then, implement the degenerate 'for' loop: `for {...}`, which loops infinitely until 'break' is called.
        -   similar to `loop` in Rust, `for (;;)` in Go, C/C++. `for` is the only builtin looping construct in this language.
        -   need to also emit `break` and `continue` statements
            -   nothing fancy with these semantics, we can just emit 1:1 to C++.
    -   FIXME: test more: stuck until I can get mutation working for an incrementing counter... hilarious

-   ~~DONE: review pointers~~ (see 003.review-2)
    -   At the moment, `&` indicates a mutable pointer while `^` indicates an immutable one. This is not at all intuitive.
    -   We would like `Rc[T]` and `MutRc[T]` to refer to immutable and mutable reference-counted/managed pointers resp.
        -   `Arc[T]` and `MutArc[T]` extend these in a way that is thread-safe.
        -   alternatively, `Arc` alone can be provided
        -   also, `WeakRc[T]`, `UnownedRc[T]`, `UnsafeCPtr[T]` are supported.
            -   `UnsafeCPtr`, `MutUnsafeCPtr[T]` are treated as 'references' only, and are written as `&`, `&mut` resp.
            -   we can offer all of these pointers as builtins at first, and later try to move them into libraries (such that the user can choose to use it).
        -   crucially, you can swap this out for a different allocator with hooks into C++, offerring GC that is optional but on by
            default, which is a good fit for the 'averaged' programmer's workload.
            -   the averaged programmer is an average of all programmers, not 'the average programmer'
    -   We would like to move 100% to reference counting or some similarly managed runtime option.
        -   A language where performance is the primary focus must be difficult to use, since performance problems should not be 
            easy to solve, and the user may need every tool available.
        -   Instead, focus on the 95% case: most applications are not throughput bound, but instead latency-bound: focus on complex
            data-structures to make working with streams easier.
        -   One simple option is to assume all allocations are made on the heap or stack, as inferred by the compiler. 
            This is similar to how '&' works in Go, and even Java can be optimized using this kind of inference.
    -   Problem currently: we want weak references to be set to null when the object is de-allocated, like Swift
        -   The idea is that when a weak reference is accessed, we check if the memory was finalized but not de-allocated using separate 
            reference counts for strong, weak, and unowned references.
        -   Thus, weak references are not 'just pointers', and involve reference counting logic of their own.
            Thus, raw pointers are not a substitute for them.
        -   Unlike Swift, we do not offer any boxed data-types. This helps keep allocation orthogonal and flexible.

-   TODO: implement namespaces, scoped using

-   TODO: implement managed pointers
    -   can easily write a C++ runtime, implement copy constructors, etc.
        -   e.g. write an `Rc<T>` type in C++
    -   we can still optimize 'incref/decref' insertion in function bodies
    -   for now, using `Ptr[T]` and `MutPtr[T]` for raw pointers: `Rc<T>` can provide a wrapper around this.
        -   TODO: assignment operator overloads.

-   WIP: implement tuples, tuple destructuring
    -   facilitates named return values, etc.
    -   can desugar bindings into Bind1? early to avoid much change.
    -   TODO: add `.<int>` tuple accessor syntax to expand on current name-based approach

-   DONE: introduce lambdas, specifically parameterless/0-arg lambdas
    -   this is an excellent feature for DSLs, and makes lazy evaluation as easy as a `{}` wrapper passed to the right argument
    -   in short term, this means postfix {...} is no longer viable for constructors... adopt `make` keyword as a compromise.
        -   `make` only allocates on the stack, and returns a value.
        -   there is no `new` operator: call a function instead.
            -   makes flexible allocators easy
    -   NOTE: instead of implicit evaluation like Scala, adopted a more Pythonic explicit is 'better than implicit' approach
        -   `do <expression>` is equivalent to `<expression>()`
        -   `{...}` always creates a lambda (note that `return` statements return from the nearest block)
            -   by default, we assume the lambda takes 0 arguments and can only be explicitly invoked with either `do` or `<expr>()`
            -   note that `if` accepts the lambda parameters and evaluates only one branch based on a condition
            -   this is excellent for DSLs
        -   this side-steps having to rewrite the typer to support implicit type casts

-   TODO: design standard library
    -   Will need a considerable amount of documentation.
-   CONSIDER: implement 'match' expressions

-   TODO: MISC
    -   optimization: according to profile, most time is spent parsing. 
    
        Grammar is not hard to write a bespoke parser for, but data is very small, will have to try with larger projects.

        REVIEW: could be because example programs are small...

    -   documentation: as the language grows, I need to keep track of what's in it.

This is in addition to the already planned features. Neither should be that hard, since we just emit to C++.
-   TODO: implement methods
    -   rather than opt for C++ methods, consider defining virtual tables and performing dynamic casts ourselves.
    -   this provides the ability to augment existing C types with methods transparently, and makes a more modern set of trade-offs by not storing
        a virtual table/isa pointer on each object, and instead making pointers to virtual objects 'fat' (like Rust, Go).
    -   unfortunately, this means we cannot easily consume C++ code without making it builtin: invoking methods on C++ objects will use a different mechanism 
        than native objects. 
        -   maybe a dedicated method calling mechanism for C++ objects?
-   TODO: implement templates
    -   in addition to '.cpp' and '.hpp' file pair, emit a '.inl' file containing inline definitions that is included in each header.

PROJECT IDEAS:
-   Simple video-game using SDL2 wrapper
    -   SDL2 is a C library with straightforward-enough data-types, so this may be feasible.
    -   Results should be immediate, and a great way to find shortcomings in the compiler.
-   Implement tests for the compiler.
