May 4, 2021

By 'implementing' methods for data-types, we allow the user to interact with and specify a parallel
`vtable` data structure in terms of simple typing operations (super-type, sub-type, etc.)

Note ANTLR can handle Java-style angle-brackets for generics (unlike Bison).
- we regain square brackets for lists and indexing!
- e.g. `Array<T, n>`
- regardless, I like the square brackets for static calls...
- use `<...>` for array/tuple indexing? Still no thanks, can use `at` method with an interface!

## TUT - Extensions & Interfaces

### Static Extension

Each data-type has a unique 'static extension' namespace, 
- accessible via that data-type using `.` in an instance-agnostic way
- assignable via `extend`

```
Vector3f = Struct {
    x :: Float32;
    y :: Float32;
    z :: Float32;
};

# accessible via 'Type.', e.g. `Vector3f.new`  
vec3f_unit = Vector3f.new(1, 1, 1);

# assignable using 'extend'
Vector3f *= {
    new (x, y, z) = Vector3f {x, y, z};
    unit = vec3f_unit;
};
```

When an instance accesses a field using the `:` operator, it is a shorthand for
a curried function application from the static namespace:
- note `DeclType` doesn't need to be a real operator for the user, though _C_ supports it...
```
(not actual syntax, just notes)
self:field_name    ::=    DeclType(v).field_name(self)
so
self:method(...)   ::=    DeclType(v).method(self)(...)
```
- thus, `:` is explicitly the 'method call operator'
- note `:` can also be used by pointers, with some auto-dereferencing possible.

### Interfaces

By qualifying a data-type's static extension, we can specify the interface by which 
that type is accessible in a generic way.

Each interface expresses 'requirements'. 
If a type's static extension satisfies these requirements, 
that type's static extension is further endowed with some generic definitions 
provided by the interface.

```
VECTOR = Interface [Scalar, Index] {
    require dim :: Index;
    require pi  :: (Self) => (Index) => Scalar;
    
    dimension :: (Self) => Index;
    # ^-- must be provided with an extension somewhere.
};
Vector3f :: VECTOR[Float32, Int32];

Vector3f *= {
    dim = 3;

    pi (self) (index) = {
        match index {
            0 -> self.x;
            1 -> self.y;
            2 -> self.z;
        }
    };
};
```

All interface-satisfying types can be extended in a `for-all` fashion by extending the interface
itself.

The below statement applies the `dimension` method to all types that satisfy the interface's requirements,
as promised in the interface definition.
```
extend VECTOR [Scalar, Index] {
    dimension (self) = {
        Self.dim
    };
};

```

### Interfaces as Objects

Interface value instances can be used to wrap values that satisfy an interface, such
that dynamic dispatch is used to select the correct instance method.

Note that a stable-enough pointer to the data (the `this` pointer) must be passed to
the interface's initializer list.

Thus, the Interface object is, at best, a generic wrapper or adapter around more 
efficient/sound mechanisms.

Since an Interface is just a wrapper around a pointer, we must differentiate
between `mut INTERFACE` and `INTERFACE`

```
List = std.Vector;

main () = {
    vec_list = List[mut VECTOR].new();
    vec_list_mp = &mut vec_list;
    v1 := Vector3f.unit;
    v2 := Vector2f.unit;
    vec_list_mp.push_back(mut VECTOR {&mut v1});
    vec_list_mp.push_back(mut VECTOR {&mut v2});
    
    # printing all vectors:
    for i := 0; i < vec_list:size(); i <- i + 1 {
        print_str("VECTOR {");
        for j := 0; j < vec_list:at(i):dimension(); j <- j + 1 {
            print_i32(j);
            print_str("=");
            print_f32(vec_list:at(i):pi(j));
            if 1+j != vec:dimension() {
                print_str(", ");
            };
        }
        print_str("}");
        print_ln();
    };
};
```

### How Interfaces Work

In Astropod, every datatype is either an interface or a 'sealed class', i.e.
one that does not admit any subtypes. Thus, we do not need any virtual inheritance.

Each interface is compiled to a unique Abstract Base Class in a lattice inheritance structure, such that
- each ABC has no data members, no nontrivial constructor, no nontrivial destructor
- if one interface subclasses another, so do ABCs (so lattice of multiple inheritance)
- **if two interfaces share any functions,** they are automatically defined in an 'intersection' ABC
  that is then subclassed by the two ABCs that intersected originally
- all non-static required methods are pure v`irtual (using `this` to overload on `self` arg for DD)
- all provided methods for the interface type that apply to subtypes are defined as class methods

Each non-interface is compiled to a final C++ class that subclasses only the appropriate 
interface ABCs.
- this guarantees that we can cast (pointer to the datatype) to (pointer to the interface type)
- this allows concrete datatypes to inherit static methods defined for interface ABC

An 'Interface' type is nothing but an `ABC*` in C++ terms.

---

## Namespaces

Like C++, would be best to have 're-entrant' namespaces, i.e. ones that can be re-opened.

Ideal for static symbol injection.
Would replace `module` system.
Namespaces do not admit template arguments.

With this touch, can transparently export for interop with C++ code.

For import interoperability, can rename overloaded functions
- consider `_1, _2, ...` suffices based on order or some sorting criterion
- consider external source maps

Assumed syntax changes:
- for loops
- match-expressions (note incomplete match narrows range, compile-time error if can prove otherwise)
- use `mod` to open a namespace
- use `<Type/CLASS> <= extension {...}` to specify/define types' static extensions.
  - any formal template args admitted for LHS
  - note formal args can also be used in typing blocks
- use `<CLASS_ID> <=> Interface {...}` to specify/define an interface.

```
mod linalg.vec {
    Vector2 = Struct [Scalar] {
        x :: Scalar;
        y :: Scalar;
    };
    Vector3 = Struct [Scalar] {
        x :: Scalar;
        y :: Scalar;
        z :: Scalar;
    };
};

mod linalg.vec { 
    VECTORS = Interface [Scalar] {
        require dim :: (Self) -> Int32;
        require pi  :: (Self) -> (Int32) -> Scalar;
        
        # ...
    };
    Vector2[Scalar] :: VECTORS[Scalar];
    Vector3[Scalar] :: VECTORS[Scalar];
    
    extend VECTORS[Scalar] {
        # ...
    };
    
    extend Vector2[Scalar] {
        dim (self) = 2;
        
        pi (self) (index) = match index {
            0 -> Scalar {self.x};
            1 -> Scalar {self.y};
        };
    };
    
    # ...
};
```

### Conclusion:

re-extendable namespaces offer limited additional functionality.

Furthermore, keeping modules lets us do this:

## Extension as a Module LL

Assume modules are kept.
- slightly different `mod` syntax prevents trying to extend a module.
- only modules may admit template args
  - makes it straightforward to type everything else with contextual formal args.
- `extend` replaced with `mod` statement variant
  - like injecting module symbols into the static extension

```
mod fibo params [Type] {
    fib :: (Type) -> Type;
    Type :: NUMBER;
    
    fib = (x) -> {
        if x == 0 or x == 1 {
            x
        } else {
            fib(x-1) + fib(x-2)
        }
    }
}; 

mod vec[Scalar].Vector2 params [Scalar] {
    dim (self) = 2;
    
    pi (self) (index) = {
        # ...
    };
};
```
