May 4, 2021

Rather than inject into classes with magic, let's go back to basics.
- modules are a container value datatype
- support module instantiation
- every type may have a `vtable` module/module-pointer instance
- embrace `type-sculpt`
    - execute things in a strictly linear order
    - allow the user to update data-structures related to modules
      - e.g. by extending with more methods
    - allow duck-typed short-hands using `:` operator via `vtable`.
      - this works using the `TypeOf(x)` operator.
    - auto-move all typing statements to the end of a context, ban shadowing

### Modules

Modules are a kind of tabular data-type that can store all bindings.

```
hola = module {
    hello (x) = {0};
    howdy (y) = {y};
    
    hello :: (Float32) -> Float32;
};

# redundant specifier:
# hola :: Module {
#     hello :: (Float32) -> Float32; 
# };
```

Module IDs are the only value symbols that can accept template arguments:

```
vec[Scalar] = module {
    Vector3 = Struct {
        x :: Scalar;
        y :: Scalar;
        z :: Scalar;
    };
};
```

Modules are units of extension to implement interfaces and methods:

```
Color[Scalar] = Struct {
    r :: Scalar;
    g :: Scalar;
    b :: Scalar;
};

# a type accepts several module objects as 'extensions'.
# this extension list can be mutated with these **top-level** statements.
# the inserted module CANNOT accept any new generic arguments!
Color[Scalar].namespace <- module {
    black :: Self;
    
    new (r, g, b) = struct {
        r = r;
        g = g;
        b = b;
    };
    
    # black must be defined after `new`, otherwise
    # error, but can be typed first.
    black = Self.new(0, 0, 0);
    
    as_hex_code (self) = {
        # ...
        "#000000":as_char_array
    };
};

# note how generic implementations of modules can be canned and assigned.
# note that symbols defined in extension space must be monomorphically unique per-type.

main () = {
    color = Color[Float32].black;
    color_code = x:as_hex_code;
    print(color_code);
};
```

### Typeclasses as Interfaces

`Self` is the implicit parameter to every typeclass.

Since fields are encoded on the type namespace, we can use type-classes as interfaces with
only extensions to `003 - Rev 2` (currently implemented)

In order to allow typeclasses to also provide definitions, requirements are split into 
separate `requires` clauses that are `and`-ed together.

Similarly, `provides {...}` is used to type any methods implemented in the typeclass
namespace for consumption by all types that satisfy the typeclass.
- very similar to a `Struct` definition

```
NUMBER <=> {
    Self :< UInt8 or
    Self :< UInt32 or
    Self :< UInt64 or
    Self :< UInt16 or
    # ...
    Self :< Float64
};

ADDITIVE_RING <=> {
    Self.add :: (Self) -> (Self) -> Self and
    1b
};
MULTIPLICATIVE_RING <=> {
    Self.multiply :: (Self) -> (Self) -> Self and
    1b
};
FIELD <=> {
    Self :: ADDITIVE_RING and
    Self :: MULTIPLICATIVE_RING
};
```

### Typeclasses as Instances

Type classes are instantiated with a pointer to a datatype satisfying
the type-class.

The result is a runtime monomorphic wrapper around a polymorphically typed object.

If the pointer is mutable, we obtain a `mut TYPECLASS` instance.

This means that when declaring mutable fields for structures, we cannot just use a `mut` prefix
for type specifiers since we might obtain `mut mut TYPECLASS`, or worse still,
`mut TYPECLASS` ambiguous between an immutable `TYPECLASS` variable or a mutable
`TYPECLASS` constant.

Instead, variables now admit the `Var` prefix, eliminating all ambiguity.

```
trivial_field_impl [Scalar] = module {
    Scalar :: NUMBER;
    
    add :: (Scalar) -> (Scalar) -> Scalar; 
    
    add (self) (other) = {
        self + other
    };
    multiply (self) (other) = {
        self * other
    };
};

Int32.namespace <- trivial_field_impl[Int32];

main () = {
    x_data :: Int32;
    y_data :: Int32;
    x :: Var FIELD;
    y :: Var FIELD;
    
    x_data = 0;
    y_data = 0;
    
    x := FIELD{&x_data};
    y := FIELD{&y_data};
    
    field_sum = x:add(y);
    field_product = x:multiply(y);
    data_sum = x_data:add(y_data);
    data_product = x_data:multiply(y_data);
    
    ok = (
        field_sum:equals(data_sum) and
        field_product:equals(data_product)
    );
    if ok { 0 } else { 1 } 
};
```

### Closing Remarks

Delay these 2 features to a subsequent verison:
1. Dynamic dispatch using the `:` operator 
2. Type namespace injection using the `.namespace <-` operator.

Get typeclasses working first, such that we can check if a type
satisfies a typeclass.
- might be as simple as a 'test' function that evaluates test expression
- in order to determine if a type belongs to a typeclass
- challenge lies in evaluating an algebraic pre-image of a test-function.

Then, can work on interfaces.

Note that `:` explicitly provides dynamic dispatch/overloading capabilities when used
on **instances of typeclasses**

### How Interfaces Work

(Originally from Rev 3, mostly lifted)

In Astropod, every datatype is either an interface or a 'sealed class', i.e.
one that does not admit any subtypes. Thus, we do not need any virtual inheritance.

Each interface is compiled to a unique Abstract Base Class in a lattice inheritance structure, such that
- each ABC has no data members, no nontrivial constructor, no nontrivial destructor
- if one interface subclasses another, so do ABCs (so lattice of multiple inheritance)
- **if two interfaces share any functions,** they are automatically defined in an 'intersection' ABC
  that is then subclassed by the two ABCs that intersected originally
- all non-static required methods are pure `virtual` (using `this` to overload on `self` arg for DD)
- all provided methods for the interface type that apply to subtypes are defined as class methods

Each non-interface is compiled to a final C++ class that subclasses only the appropriate 
interface ABCs.
- this guarantees that we can cast (pointer to the datatype) to (pointer to the interface type)
- this allows concrete datatypes to inherit static methods defined for interface ABC

An 'Interface' type is nothing but an `ABC*` in C++ terms.


QUESTION: What about pointers?
- de-referencing pointers means impl for pointer type invalid?
  what a strange quirk
- maybe this is okay! cf. Rust