May 4-5, 2021

In the previous revision, pointer types and their pointees would not share extension
methods, creating issues when expressing mutability.

Adding explicit classes eliminates these issues while folding in interfaces.
An interface is just an abstract base class that does not admit a constructor, data members, or a destructor.
It may admit non-pure-virtual methods that are inherited.

Mandating that class instances are always boxed enables sub-class instances to be 
passed as super-class instances.
- to achieve Pythonic behavior, allow any method to be overridden and replaced
- thus, all methods are virtual
- assume `self` is always a pointer, with the `mut` prefix denoting a mutable pointer.

Forbid subclassing so Composition (over Inheritance) is the norm.

Class data members are ~~automatically computed by closure from primary constructor~~
- need to use the `self` keyword to access fields
- for now, just re-assign

Always initialize data-types with their type.

Instead of imports, take a cue from C#.
- There is a single `namespace` statement that determines where code is placed until the next top-level namespace statement.
- There is a `using` statement that includes namespaces.
- The compiler simply accepts a list of source file inputs, like a C++ compiler.
  - We can integrate it into tooling like CMake easily.
  - We can automatically resolve a project namespace like `C#`.

At the top-level, only type symbols and constant values can be defined.

Class-IDs are no more, instead use Type-IDs for interfaces and classes too.
- Namespaces can use `vid` or `TId`

```
namespace Demo.Color; 

NormRGBA = Struct {
    r :: Float32; 
    g :: Float32; 
    b :: Float32; 
    a :: Float32;
};

IColor = Interface {
    req get_normalized_rgba :: (&Self) -> NormRGBA;
    req set_normalized_rgba :: (&mut Self) -> NormRGBA -> ();
    
    hex_code :: (&Self) -> String;
    
    # shared method implementation:
    hex_code (self) = {
        (r, g, b, a) = self:get_normalized_rgba;
        r_int = Int8{r * 255.0f};
        g_int = Int8{g * 255.0f};
        b_int = Int8{b * 255.0f};
        a_int = Int8{a * 255.0f};
        buffer = Array[mut Char, 8];
        # todo: convert ints to hex code
    };
};

Color3f = Class (init_x, init_y, init_z) {
    Self :: IColor;
    
    # all bound symbols are fields:
    x = init_x;
    y = init_y;
    z = init_z;
    
    x :: Float32;
    y :: Float32;
    z :: Float32;
    
    # static members:
    # accessible via Color3f.field
    
    # members accessed via `:` operator
    # - `self` => `&Self` data-type
    # - `mut self` => `&mut Self` data type.
    # Either use `initializer list` for non-class or function-call for class.
    get_normalized_rgba (self) = NormRGBA {
        self.x, self.y, self.z, 1.0f
    };
};

Color4f = Class (init_r, init_g, init_b, init_a) {
    a = init_a;
    base_c3f = Color3f(init_r, init_g, init_b); 
};

namespace Demo.EntryPoint;

main () = {
    red   = IColor { Demo1.Color3f(1.0f, 0.0f, 0.0f) };
    green = IColor { Demo1.Color3f(0.0f, 1.0f, 0.0f) };
    blue  = IColor { Demo1.Color3f(0.0f, 0.0f, 1.0f) };
};
```

KISS objects:
1.  DEFN: every `CLASS` or `INTERFACE` instance is a 'fat pointer', or a 2-tuple of pointers.
    - ```
      FatPointer [T] = Struct {
           self :: &ClassDataType(T);
           vtab :: &ClassVTableType(T); 
      };
      ``` 
    - ```
      mut FatPointer [T] = Struct {
           self :: &mut ClassDataType(T);
           vtab :: &ClassVTableType(T); 
      };
      ```
    - where `ClassDataType` and `ClassVTableType` are determined from the definition, such that
      - `&ClassDataType` is unique to every instance
      - `&ClassVTableType` is a static data-type shared by all instances of a type (but stored by each instance uniquely)
        - note `Slice[INTERFACE]` instances will have varying `vtab` pointers per-element
        - note `Slice[ClassName]` instances _may_ have varying `vtab` pointers per-element
          - since overloading could result in a _subclass_ `vtab` being assigned
2.  by treating `CLASS` and `INTERFACE` instances identically (but forbidding `INTERFACE` instantiation),
    we can make `CLASS` instances polymorphic.
    - each monomorphic `Class` subtypes a monomorphic `CppBase(CLASS)`.
    - no apparent uses for now, but great flexibility for the future
3.  Isn't this the inefficiency we were trying to get away from?
    - yes, but there is nothing that offers this much flexibility while inter-operating with C/C++ code.
    - Python and other scripting languages provide similar features but use interpreters.
    - we can also support a placement-new feature that allows this code to be migrated to a more efficient
      scheme in the future
    - even without classes, the language offers ample functional and imperative tools to achieve goals efficiently.
4.  What about C++ interop?
    - allow auto-importing C headers
    - allow auto-importing C++ headers
      - need a strategy to handle overloads
    - allow exporting C++ headers and implementation
    - to call C++ code, must wrap in a C interface first.

