# May 7

Namespace system means we cannot have templates in a shared scope.
- revert to original discrete/inextensible `module` system to keep dynamic feel
    - modules are values that may admit type fields
    - modules are the only polymorphic object, and admit template args as a list.
    - top-modules admit `params [...]`
- keep all other features as in Rev 7
    - key innovation: use `:` instead of `.` for everything defined using `extension`
    - replace current 'typeclass' system with interfaces
    - use `extension module {...}` syntax to suggest monomorphic module is the unit of extension
    - this further allows the user to write a generic module and use it to extend a class or datatype-- perfect!
    - exception: remove static methods for types, so all extensions are bound to `self :: &Self` or `self :: &mut Self`
- since type bindings are permitted basically anywhere, issue of ugly module specifiers amortized significantly.
    - consider frequently used `Vector[T]` data-structure
    - we already support 
        - `VecInt32 = vector[Int32].Vector; VecInt64 = vector[Int64].Vector;`
        - now that we support methods, we can use the full-form for one-off uses or the compact form for many.
    - what about reading a tuple in a namespace?
        - `(IntList, push, car) = vector[Int32].{Vector, push_back, back};` 
        - `(name, field, info) = actor.{name, field, info};`
    - generics are a luxury while defining functions, but must be used with care.
        - module-level templates make definitions super easy, since multiple definitions may share template args.
        - template instantiations are almost too explicit
            - when instantiations are unclear, errors can be hard to diagnose.
            - `.` after `[]` separates the identity of template instantiations
            - use of `[]` explicitly indicates compile-time use rather than run-time

- other syntax changes:
    - lambdas are a 'sort-of' binary expression
    - no more CIDs, interfaces are represented by TIDs.
    - `|=` binary operator denotes extension. Compare with `=` and `:=`. Constraints:
        - LHS must be a TID that is already bound.
        - RHS must be a module expression.
    - no more `Self` or `self` or `&self` or `&mut self`; extensions accept a single argument, `Self`
        - powerful in conjunction with `include <module-exp>`
    - `include <module-exp>` is a chain-element that links to another module
    - note that `a:b` flexibly calls with either `Self`, `&Self`, or `&mut Self`.
        - only one is matched, depending on the unique type signature of `b` in all extensions.

```
Vector2f = Struct {
    x :: Float32;
    y :: Float32;
};

Vector3f = Struct {
    v2 :: Vector2f;
    z :: Float32;
};

Vector2f |= module [Self] {
    length_sqr = (self) -> () -> {
        self.x*self.x + self.y*self.y
    };
    
    length = (self) -> () -> {
        sqrt(self:length_sqr)
    };
};

Vector3f |= module [Self] {
    length :: (Self) -> Float32; 
    
    length = (self) -> {
        sqrt(self:length_sqr)
    }
};
```