May 11

Key changes:
0. `atc`: astropod toolchain: program name
1. Some syntax changes, mainly `.` for methods.
   These are verified to not conflict with any data fields, with erroneous definitions being flagged.
    - use `.` to access data fields and methods alike.
    - use `=` to bind constants. use `:` to type values.
    - use `=` to bind constant pointers.
         - no more variables! instead, initialize `&mut T` pointer and update the ptr.
         - use `:=` to update mut ptr LHS with RHS value. returns RHS, right-associative.
    - use `(Interface|Type:Interface) {...}` to for extension block, specifying which interfaces implemented unless interface on LHS
    - lambdas can return either paren expressions or constructor expressions (pseudo type-spec)
    - use lowercase keywords ubiquitously
      - no longer need separate keywords to create module variants: always use type to denote constructor
      - lowercase keywords look cooler, easier to read in long lines (less prominent => less visual noise)
    - constructors must accept chain expressions, allow unparenthesized, comma-separated tuples (like OCaml).
      - can then use `[]` as a list separator.
   - interfaces explicitly specify `requires` and `provides` using blocks.
2. Remove modules.
    - Extending a type does not use modules
    - There are no sub-modules or namespaces (use files)
3. Remove templates.
    - So a `Vector` accepts `T` size at run-time via constructor
        - known AOT if T is not an interface
        - if T is an interface type, 2z fat pointer
        - always fixed and known
        - rely on implemented method to serialize
    - **Message-passing polymorphism** is incredible. Let's use it.
4. Remove static methods: only functions definable are methods.
    - this guarantees everything at top-level is a type or extension
    - guarantees immutability of script contents
    - allows us to build classes for different targets in the same codebase.
      - i.e., form of memory isolation/implicit memory barrier
5. Each extension member **MUST** have a signature befitting a method.
   - `Self` is automatically defined in extension scopes, and refers to the extended type.
   - must be of unary function type
   - unary operand type must be `Self`, `&Self`, or `&mut Self`
   - guarantees a type solution (at worst, `IAny`, exists for each hole).
6. Each type-ID interface **MUST** begin with the letter prefix `I`
7. How do we use (execute/link/check) this code?
   - parse arguments to the compiler link C/C++ and specify output
   - offer a flag `-i(<exp>)` to interpret using a class implementing, say, `IProgram`?
      - `exp` must be an `IProgram` instance
      - easiest: `atc testing.astropod -i()`
   - wrap args in CMake to offer rich integration with C/C++ ecosystem
8. Re-introduce shadowing in chains.
   - this is possible because mutable variables are no longer supported
   - this means type specifiers must follow bindings/initialization in chains
   - we can use the chained context system from Pandemonium to scope chains this way

```
imports {
    # whatever
};

IShape3d = interface {
    requires {
        volume: (&Self) -> Float32;
        bbox:   (&Self) -> Aabb3d;
    };
    provides {
        print: (&Self) -> Void;
    };
};
IShape3d {
    print: (&Self) -> Void;

    print = (self) -> {
        printf("Shape{volume=%f}", self.volume);
    };
};

Point3d = struct {
    x: Float32;
    y: Float32;
    z: Float32;
};

Aabb3d = struct {
    min: Point3d;
    max: Point3d;
};

Aabb3d: IShape3d {
    volume = (self) ->  {
        self.x * self.y * self.z
    };
    bbox = (self) -> {
        *self
    };
};

Sphere3d = struct {
    center: Point3d;
    radius: Float32;
};

Sphere3d: IShape3d {
   volume: (&Self) -> Float32;
   bbox: (&Self) -> Aabb3d;

   volume = (self) -> {
       pi = 3.14159f;
       radius = self.radius;
       pi * radius * radius
   };
   bbox = (self) -> Aabb3d {
       Point3d {center.x - radius, center.y - radius, center.z - radius},
       Point3d {center.x + radius, center.y + radius, center.z + radius}
   };
};
```

NOTE: static methods accessible via `().method`
- since every instance of unit is identical and takes no space, accomplishes desired goal.
- no overloads, but rich polymorphism

NOTE: no more variables! Instead, bind immutable `&mut T`.
- allocate on the stack with `alloca<T>(initial_value)`
- allocate on the heap with `malloc<T>(initial_value)`, which must be freed with `free<T>(initial_value)`
- always returns a mutable pointer, which can be cast to an immutable pointer as required. 
- note `mut` in language only ever specifies exterior mutability-- intentional
   - since `:=` only assigns considering exterior mutability, this scheme works well
   - in typer, would be wise to keep `ptr` and `mut` monads separate, since...
      - dereferencing a `&mut T` ptr or element ptr must return a `mut` instance we can then take `&mut` to
      - can check if `&mut` unary operator is accurate only if arg is of type `mut T`.

Really proud of the shebang below:

```
#! /usr/bin/env atc -i()

(): IProgram {
   main_1 = (self) -> {
      p1 = alloca Int32{0i};
      p2 = alloca Int32{1i};
      p2 := p1 := *p1 + *p2;
      *p2
   };
   
   main_2 = (self) -> {
      p1 = alloca 0i;
      p2 = alloca 1i;
      p2 := p1 := *p1 + *p2;
      *p2
   };
   
   # main_1 and main_2 behave identically.
   main: (&Self) -> Int32;
   main = main_1;
};
```


Can support `List`/`Slice` objects, though will need `Buffer` instance and some reference counting/
management.
- `[...]` literals should denote arrays
- promotion via polymorphic traits

This is a lot of features! Start small, polymorphism will let us build big.