May 17

The following features MUST be added to the language before further typing work:
1. module templates, `module::` or `module<...>::` as a module element specifier (like C++)
2. `!` instead of `.` for dynamic dispatch call
3. Ensure `Type: Interface {...}`: i.e., type in interface always involves an extension block.

Above changes have been added to grammar.

**TODO:** implement grammar changes in parser.

How do interfaces work?
- can store a special set of relations 'on context'
    - a binary relation indicating that a type implements an interface
    - a list of these relations with AST node reference serves as a static
      associative map to look up methods.
- would be useful to rewrite context system

## Late Typer / CFA Checklist

After type inference, several static checks must occur.
1. Late typer checks: verify that...
    1. no type variables remain after elimination
        - if they do, report that the type could not be inferred, and that a type specifier is required.
        - this results in early abort.
    2. all type _conversions_ are valid (where applicable)
        - e.g. type constructor expressions
        - e.g. dynamic dispatch for `self`
    3. all interface implementations are complete
    4. all binary operator schemes (e.g. `+` or `==`) are defined, applied in a valid way
        - for typer, can encode as DD
        - when emitting, can 'override' with inline code in emitter
        - must define trivial `==` and `!=` operators, e.g. `= default` in C++
2. Control-flow analysis
    1. ensuring uninitialized variables are not read
    2. ensuring immutable data is never mutated
    
## Compiler Feature Request: Exceptions + Reporting

Need a comprehensive system of exceptions to ensure compilation is correct.
1. parser errors generated by ANTLR must generate an exception that halts compilation.
2. typing errors must generate an exception that halts compilation.

After receiving exceptions, we should report them to the user.
1. Need feedback/reporting mechanism that conveys information back to user.
2. Can do better than printing-- or can we?
    - What if the best solution is **printing to a special file-stream in a special format (like XML/HTML)**?
        - e.g. XML/HTML => extremely general error messages off the bat
        - e.g. text + BB-codes => expressive
        - ability to insert tags to references, automatically print/navigate-to source
    - Makes it very, very easy to output cogent information quickly
    - Can always parse back in CLI
        - standardize post-processing of error messages before display
    - Kinda funky and low-risk, so sounds fun.