Based on writing 'matmul':

QSL
-   want `file_write`, short version of `print`
-   

LANGUAGE FEATURES
-   want named function params
    -   also in constructors, much less error-prone
    -   if named args are mandatory, consider allowing '<id>' as shorthand
        for '<id>: <id>'
-   want list/array literals
-   want 'darray', which is a dynamic array whose size is mutable.
    -   formerly named 'ArrayBox' and 'MutArrayBox'
    -   emits as 'std::vector<T>', can have a generic QSL replacement if needed
-   want 'vector', which are basically dynamic arrays whose size is immutable.
    -   must implement a generic QSL replacement
-   want 'slice'
    -   Slice, DArray, and Vector are all RC-ed, but Array is not.
-   want overloading for constructors in the least, maybe in general (SFINAE)
    -   overloaded constructors for copy, initializing arrays with various ints
    -   IDEA: allow omitting args for 'push' and 'heap' to return uninit (but 
        zeroed in debug mode?)
    -   IDEA: alternatively, use `push val <expr>` and `heap val <expr>`
-   Want 'val' to be elided: maybe just commit to ANTLR
-   want classes with RC
-   Want METHODS, either via syntax extensions or builtins.
-   How do pointer casts work? Are they safe?
    -   We can opt to not support them and force C: makes SMT checks way easier
    -   Not supporting pointer casts prevents easy memory use
-   How does allocating buffers of memory (e.g. raw malloc or alloca) work? Are they safe?
    -   Can use Z3 to elide bounds-checks most of the time, but how does alignment work without it?
-   Want macros: vital to allow 'push' in an outer scope
    -   consider 'stx'
    -   consider using Scala-style ID binary operator to method sugar
